# [WindowAbstractions Interface](@id interface)

## Events

A large portion of this package is dedicated to handling the events reported by the X server and interfacing them into `EventDetails` instances.

In order to receive events from the server, we need to tell the server which types of event we want to be reported. This is done per-window, at their instantiation, through so-called event masks. In the future, it is intended to check which event we are subscribed to with the window callbacks that are provided to an event loop.

### Input events

Input events can be classified into different types:

- Key events which are generated by pressing or releasing a key from a keyboard,
- Mouse events originating from pressing or releasing mouse buttons,
- Pointer events such as moving out of or entering a window with the pointer, or moving around inside the window.

Although drag actions are technically just of combination of mouse state and pointer events, they are reported as separate events.

#### Key events

XKB is used for translating keystrokes into characters, taking for example the keyboard layout and state into account. The code to retrieve characters was inspired from the [XKB tutorial](https://github.com/xkbcommon/libxkbcommon/blob/master/doc/quick-guide.md).

#### Mouse events

Mouse events are a lot less complex than key events. Mouse state (e.g. which buttons were pressed during another mouse event) and pressed/released buttons are extracted from related X event data. The action being performed (pressing or releasing a button) is extracted from the event code.

#### Pointer events